[MUSIC]
Okay, so I'm back in my Mac and
I'm actually looking at github.com.
And I'm already logged in into GitHub.
So the first thing we're going to
do is we're going to go over how to
create your own repository on GitHub.
And then how to turn that repository into
something you could store your code in
your website code in.
And then have that same repository turn
around and host your website for you.
As part of this demonstration,
I'm obviously
going to use some git commands in
order to commit, in order to save, and
in order to upload our code that is
locally in our machine to github.com.
Now, I highly encourage you to
actually learn get pretty in-depth.
I'm not going to have a whole course here
in just a lecture or so on Git, I will
carry give you enough of the commands so
you'll be able to be functional.
But I would very highly
encourage you to go and
read it at least through the branches
chapter of the Git book.
And the way you could do
that is it's free online.
You can just say Git book.
If you say Git book, the very first thing
you should come up as this Git book link.
And this is a book that if you
wanted to actually get a PDF or
you could read the entire thing online.
And I strongly suggest that you
read the first three chapters.
It's really not that complicated, but
for our purposes as long as you know
the commands that I'm going to give you,
you should be okay.
But if you want to become a full stack
developer or even just a front-end
developer, you should definitely try
to learn Git and its basic commands.
Okay, so I am in my account right now.
This is my ychikin and this is my account.
And probably you're going to see
something very similar, but you probably
aren't going to have as many things going
on possibly in your GitHub account.
So the first thing you want to do
is create a GitHub repository.
This is how you're going to basically
submit your assignments as well.
So you could go to your picture,
your icon whatever it is, and
there's a little icon next to it
to the left of it and it's a plus.
And if you click on it, click on the down
arrow you could say New repository.
And I'm go ahead and create a new
repository, we'll call it coursera-test.
And this is a cavity try that before so
it's already knows that I've trie that.
So coursera-test and I'll give you a green
check mark saying, yes, it's available.
And I'll just say that
this is a Coursera test
repository and it's going to be public.
If you want to make it private,
you have to pay.
We're not going to want to pay, so we're
going to just make it leave it public.
And we'll go ahead and initialize it with
a README file always always a good idea.
And all you have to do now
is click Create repository.
Let's go ahead and do that.
And voila,
I have my own repository ready to go.
So once I have this repository, I can
start interacting with it not only online
here, but also through my command line
prompt and upload code to this repository.
But before we do any of that,
let's prepare this repository to host
our actual website to the outside world.
In order to do that,
we have to do a couple of special things.
Number one is we have to go to Settings.
We'll go ahead and go right here on
the top right, we'll click on Settings.
And if we scroll down, you'll see here
GitHub Pages, Automatic page generator.
Basically, it says create
a beautiful website or site for
your project with our automatic
GitHub page generator.
Okay, so all you really have to do is
click this button launch Automatic page
generator.
And it doesn't really
matter what this says,
you could certainly customize that later.
You could scroll down all the way down and
say Continue to layouts.
And by default, it's going to give you
this pretty neat way out actually,
and you don't have to even check Iit out,
you could just click Publish page.
So the layout is not
really what we're after.
So once we're done with that, you'll see
here that as your project has been created
at HTTP and you'll see your username,
your GitHub username.
And then the URL is
github.io/coursera-test.
That's where your page is located.
So if I go right now and copy this link
right here, and we'll go to a new tab.
You're really going to see the entire
website that we just so right here, right?
Then it's so pre-filled for you already.
Now, this link will not always stay here.
If you refresh the browser, it's gone.
So how do we you if you
forget where that link is?
Where do you find it?
Well, you go back to Settings and
you scroll down, and
under GitHub Pages you'll
see that link again.
You can actually click it,
open it up, and there it is again.
Now, when you created the GitHub pages,
let's go back to our repository,
we'll click on this coursera-test.
So now when you created that
link what you actually did is,
you created a separate branch.
Now, I'm not going to go into, again,
the whole big explanation about branches.
But the bottom line is the way Git
works is it can have several branches
like several parallel streams
almost of the same repository,
of the same kind of database of your code.
So the way you see what branches
you have is right here branch,
I know your kind of see it says master.
But you click on it and
you'll see that there's another branch
here that actually wasn't there before.
If we opened up before we
would have seen only master.
But now there's another
one called gh-pages.
If you click on that gh-pages,
you'll see all the stuff here you
really didn't put in here before.
Well, with this stuff is that
website that was created for you.
So that index.html is that big page or
the giant green banner that you've seen.
So now, if you're an advanced GitHub user,
feel free to use whatever branch you want.
And then go ahead and
merge your stuff into the gh-pages branch.
B ut just know that whatever
is in gh-pages branch,
that's the only thing that's going to show
up on that special link that you created.
Nothing in the master, nothing any
other branches will actually show up.
So for the beginners, what I would suggest
doing is that you should always use
gh-pages and commit everything there.
But just remember that the base directory
is that website that got created.
So if I were you,
I'll probably create a subfolder and
put everything into that subfolder.
And leave this front page alone, or if you
want you could wipe the whole thing out
and just create your own page
right here in the root folder.
But for now, it's time to go ahead and
take this repository and
bring it down to our local machine.
Well, the way we could do that
is we have right here this URL.
This URL actually points
to our repository.
You can see it has coursera-test.git.
And we could copy this URL by
just simply clicking this link.
We'll go ahead and open the terminal.
So now what we'll do is
we'll say git clone.
Clone is the command to actually take
the repository that is somewhere remotely.
And just provide the URL
to the repository.
And you can see we're done.
If we do a list now,
you'll see that I have coursera-test.
That is our repository right there.
Let's go ahead and cd into it.
And you'll see that the only
thing there it's README.
Okay, so really what's going
on is if do git status,
you'll see that we are on branch master
and nothing really is right now change.
The thing is though, we weren't
really want to be on branch master.
Again, unless you are you
know more advanced user,
really want to be on the branch gh-pages.
And the way we could do that is
to say git checkout gh-pages.
And when we do that,
now we say git status.
We're going to be on gh-pages.
And if you do ls, you'll see all
that index.html params.json and
stylesheets folder.
It's all there from,
if we switch back to the browser,
it's all right here in that branch.
So now we have a couple of choices.
If we want, we could just go ahead and
wipe out this whole thing.
And we'll basically wipe out
that auto-generated website or
we could leave it alone.
And just basically make a directory and
then call it,
let's say, site and
cd into that site directory.
And there's nothing there, great.
So now we could go ahead and
open up sublime text.
And we'll save this page right here.
We'll go ahead and save this page too,
now at coursera > coursera-test and site.
We'll save it and call it index.html.
And we could quickly do html and do Ctrl
+ Space for a quick little template.
We'll say Hello Coursera and
we'll have h1 here,
also say Hello Coursera.
Okay, so we have a very quick page,
we saved it.
Let's go back to our terminal.
We'll do an ls, and
we see this index.html.
So now to check what's going on in our
local git, we'll say git status again.
And we'll see that actually ./ and that's
because we're inside the site directory,
we say that that / is not
actually committed at all.
Well, we could go one directory up and
then we'll do git status and
that will tell you that the site
directory is not even committed and
it's not even marked to be committed.
So the way Git works in
order to be committed into
kind that your code database, which
actually resides locally in your machine.
It is not the remote one,
not to GitHub, but
the local in your machine is you first
have to mark something for committing.
The way you mark something for committing
is you say git add and then you say what
it is you want to commit or
that is you want to mark for committing.
And this why I'll say dot and will just
include everything in my local folder, and
that's done.
I'll say git status again and
you'll see now what's marked for
to be committed is that
new file site/index.html.
And once again,
we haven't committed anything yet.
We just marked it to be committed.
Well, in order to actually
commit it we'll say git commit,
we'll say- m which is required for
message and we'll give it a message.
The message say My First page.
So we'll press Enter, and we're done.
And the only thing we need to do now
is actually put this into our remote,
meaning into our GitHub
on the remote repository.
Right now everything is sitting
in the local repository.
If we say git status again,
you'll see that everything is great,
except it'll tell you that your branch,
meaning this origin/gh-pages don't
worry about this origin thing.
Just ignore it for now, but
gh-pages is ahead by 1 commit,
meaning our local version of our
repository with all of our code
is actually ahead of the one that is
remote, which is our GitHub repository.
So the way we actually do it actually
tells you right here is just issue
a git push.
Meaning we'll take our repository,
take our database error code and
we'll push it to the remote database
which is residing at github.com.
So we'll go ahead and say git push, and
at this point after we enter your machine
might ask you for user and
a password for GitHub.
My machine has it already
entered automatically and
you could look up on the web how to
do that, so it doesn't ask you again.
But we'll say git push and
it should give you something like this.
It will tell you something about the fact
that it wrote in to this repository.
And you'll see gh-pages
on our local machine has
been transferred to
the remote one gh-pages.
Okay, so now if we switch to our
browser and we'll refresh this page,
you'll see that this site
folder showed up here.
If we click inside of it,
you'll see the index.html.
Well, let's see if it actually works.
We'll go to settings again because I
don't remember this URL anymore, and
we'll click on this URL
open up in a separate tab.
And what we see here is that
page made by GitHub for you, but
we remember that right underneath that
folder is that folder called site.
And if we say site/ here's our page,
Hello Coursera!
That's the page that we made.
And the reason I don't actually have
to specify index.html page itself is
because most servers when you say
/ they will default to index.html.
So I don't have to explicitly say it, and
clearly GitHub server is
one of those servers.
And the truth is most service
out there actually do this.
And if we creat the name of subfolders
here, we could certainly specify them.
And if you wanted to, for example,
do assignments for different modules and
you could say module one assignment
slash something and so on.
And this is Is the way for
you to be able to submit your
assignments to us to be graded.
And then you could continue
making your changes.
So we'll go ahead and open up Sublime.
We could make another change.
Hello Coursera, it's a great course.
We'll save it again.
We'll go back to our command line,
we'll say git status.
And you'll see that now
we have a modified page.
Well, again, we haven't really
marked it to be committed yet.
If we're done editing it we
could go ahead and say git add.
And we could say it's explicitly if
we want to or we could just say dot,
it doesn't matter.
And we added it,
we'll say git status again.
And you'll see now it is again mark
to be committed to the repository,
to our local repository.
Well, I will say again git commit -m for
message,
and we'll say Small addition
to our page content.
And we'll say enter and now we've
committed a change that we just made,
committed that change into
our local git repository.
But our remote repository doesn't
know anything about this.
In fact, if we switch the browser and
we'll refresh, still the same.
Well, the reason it's still the same is
because nothing really is been uploaded to
GitHub yet.
And if we do git status, it will tell us
again that our local branc, the gh-pages
is ahead of the remote one by 1 commit,
because we committed something already.
And we can have more than one commit here.
We can have more than one commit and
then at some point we'll go ahead and
upload it or
publish our changes to our repository.
So we'll say git push
to publish our changes.
And we're done.
So if we switch to the browser and
refresh, it might take a little bit, but
eventually this will happen.
So something probably got crash,
here we go.
It just takes a little bit for
it to propagate from its
repository to its website.
So it took a few seconds, but it's here.
Okay, so there's clearly many,
many other commands that you could use.
For example you could use git pull of
somebody else changed your repository.
Let's say you're collaborating
with somebody and
somebody updated something in
the remote repository in the GitHub.
You want to get those changes
to your local machine,
you'll say git space pull, and so on.
And again,
I encourage you to go through the first
couple of two three chapters of the book.
And it's definitely very helpful for
you to understand what's
really going on with Git.
However, the commands I gave you should
be good enough to be able to publish your
code to GitHub.
And at the same time
publish it to GitHub pages,
so they could be visible
to the whole world.
And to the rest of the peers
to be able to be graded.
So the next thing I would like to
show you is how to use browsersync.
Let's go ahead and clear our page and
we are still here inside the GitHub
repository or our local folder.
We'll go ahead and go inside site and
here's our index.html.
So browsersync the sink as a command you
could call from the command line and
here I am just pulled
it out from my history.
And basically you say browser-sync and
you say start, and
you want to start the browser sync.
And you want to start it in server mode,
so
it'll become like a local HTTP server for
you.
And you could say --directory,
all that will do is it will actually give
you a directory listing of the folder
you're sitting in right now, which is
this case is the folder called site.
And then you say --files meaning which
files should browsersync watch for.
And if any of those files change,
the browsersync will go ahead and
reload those things in the browser.
So you don't have to keep clicking
reload over and over and over again.
So in this case, we said star, I want to
reload everything no matter what changes,
I want those changes reloaded right away.
So I'll go ahead and start it.
And once I start that, it will go ahead
and open up a browser window for me.
And in this case you see
it's localhost port 3000.
And since with the --directory, it's
showing me the directory listing of that
folder, which is right
now is the site folder.
So I can click on index right here and I
can see that it connected to browsersync,
and here's this it's a great course.
So now what would be really neat is if
I could now pull this aside that's for
a second and open up my Sublime Text.
And just show you what happens
when you actually edit this.
So now I can go ahead and
say, you know what?
Let me remove this and I'll remove it.
In the second I save it take a look
at what happens when I save the file.
Let's save the file,
all of a sudden this gets updated as well.
So this is extremely convenient.
So that means whenever what is going
on here the cascading style sheets,
new content,
whatever, it always becomes immediately
available right there on the page.
So you don't have to keep coming
over here and clicking refresh.
That is a huge time saver when you're
developing and trying to see immediately
what's going on on the page without
having to go and clicking refresh.
So that's browsersync.
It actually has a million
other options and
I encourage you to go on their website,
Google for browsersync.
And you'll see all
the options that it has.
It's a great development helper tool.
So hopefully, you will put it to good use.
Okay, in this point your environment is
all set up and you're ready to move on.